Create a blog post about cleaning up migrations (#30)
knpuniversity/blog: clean-up-migrations.md

# Clean up your migrations!

Database migrations are a great way to safely update your database schema,
and so it's very useful for production where you do not want to lose the data

> you have. If. you want to know more about migrations - SymfonyCasts has a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you have. If you want to know more about migrations - we have a
```

> [screencasts](https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/symfony-doctrine/migrations)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[screencast](https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/symfony-doctrine/migrations)
```

about it, check it out!

> But here, I will give you a tip on how to clean up your migrations correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But here, I want to give you a tip on how to clean up your migrations... if you find your
`migrations/` directory growing and growing... like we did!
```

> First of all, this is mostly for local development, because usually it's not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, this is mostly a problem for local development: on production, we don't
really care how many migration files were executed in the past.
```

important how many migrations you have on production - all those migrations
were already executed.

> But in local development it's also a good idea to create the database and run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But while developing locally, to set things up, we recommend creating your database and
then running the `doctrine:migrations:migrate` command so that you have exactly what's
on production, including a `migrations_versions` table. This is better than running the
`doctrine:schema:update` command, which then makes it hard to test new migrations.
```

the migrations so that you have exactly what's on production and a `migration_versions`
table that matches production instead of simply running `symfony console doctrine:schema:update`
command.

And that's when many migration files may cause some performance issues locally.
In this case, you can drop all the migrations you have so far and create a single

> migration that will recreate the whole database schema from scratch.

Reviewer: I still don't think we've explained the problem clearly enough. I think we're closer. It should be something like this:

A) Locally, we recommend setting up your local system with `doctrine:migrations:migrate` instead of `doctrine:schema:update` so that you can easily test any new migrations you add.

B) But, if you have a lot of old migration files, this can start to get kinda slow! On Symfonycasts, we had 50 (fill in real number).

C) And so, while it's TOTALLY optional, if a giant `migrations/` folder bothers you, you CAN clean it up.

So, I think just some light rephrasing of these few paragraphs :)

So, this is TOTALLY optional, but if a giant `migrations/` folder is bothering you,
clean it up! Also, congratulations on having a successful site that has lived
long enough to need this.

## Generating a Complete Single Migration

Of course, we're going to do this locally first, so, run:

```terminal
rm -rf migrations/*
```

to drop all the migrations. Then, make sure you don't have important data

> you care about in your local database and drop its schema completely with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you care about in your local database, then drop its schema completely with:
```

```terminal
symfony console doctrine:schema:drop --force
```

***TIP

> The `symfony console` is the same as `bin/console` but allows env vars to be injected

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `symfony console` command is the same as `bin/console` but it allows environment variables to be injected
```

if you're using the Docker integration.
***

Now let's generate a new migration with
[MakerBundle](https://symfonycasts.com/screencast/symfony-fundamentals/maker-command):

```terminal
symfony console make:migration
```

Double-check the queries inside the new file to make sure the new migration looks good.

> But we cannot just commit changes and deploy to production because the database server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we can't just commit these changes and deploy to production... because the database server
```

> will try to recreate the tables we already have on production and the migration will fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will try to run this command and recreate the tables we already have on production!
```

> And... there's almost nothing *less* fun than migrations failing during a deploy!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's almost nothing *less* fun than migrations failing during a deploy!
```

How can we work around it without manually messing with the production database?

### Skipping the Re-generated Migration on Production

With a trick: rename the migration you just created to one that was already executed on
production. You can check the latest migration name you dropped by running:

```terminal
git status
```

For example, if you had a migration file called `Version20220415102030.php`

> before - rename the new migration file that was just generated to this exact name,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before, rename the new migration file that was just generated to this exact name,
```

and don't forget to change the class name inside the file accordingly. This will

> allow you to deploy to production but this migration won't be executed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow you to deploy to production, but this migration won't be executed
```

(it will be skipped) because it was already executed in the past.

## Removing the Previously Executed Migrations from Production

> But we can improve this a bit more. Well, if you executed this migration right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we can improve this a bit more. Because if you executed this migration right
```

now - it would say something like:

> [WARNING] You have X previously executed migrations in the database that are not
> registered migrations.

> This is because the `migration_versions` table on production will now show that it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rude! This is because the `migration_versions` table on production will now show that it
```

executed a bunch of migrations in the past... but these migration files don't exist
anymore! We could remove them manually from the production database but... yikes!
Manually running a `DELETE` query on the production database is less fun than taking
your cat to the vet.

Generate a blank migration instead:

```terminal
symfony console doctrine:migration:generate
```

> Then, open it and add a new SQL statement at the end:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, open it, and add a new SQL statement at the end:
```
